---
title: Triggers and Payloads
parent: Building Your Quest
---

# Triggers and Payloads

System triggers can generate a payload that gets passed to `action` and `condition` blocks along with the global payload. When defining a call to an action/condition block in the [Flow Nodes], developers specify how to map a parameter from the payload to a parameter passed to the block. 

This document:

- Lists the available triggers along with the payload generated by each of them.
- Lists the global payload parameters.
- Explains how the payload is mapped to actions/conditions blocks parameters.
- Explains the usage of the special `result` parameter passed to each condition and action.

## Triggers

### USER_MESSAGE

Triggered when the user sends a chat message to one of the bots.
This trigger must contain `params` with a `person` key.
For example:

```yaml
trigger: 
  type: user_message
  params:
    person: keen
  flowNode:
    ...
```

Generated payload:

- `userMessageText`: the text the user wrote to the bot.

### GITHUB_PUSH

Triggered when the user push something to their repository

Generated payload:

- `githubPushHeadCommit`: the body of the relevant commit that was pushed.

### GITHUB_PR_LIFECYCLE_STATUS

Triggered when the status of a PR opened by the user is changed.

Generated payload:

- `eventType:` the status of the PR. Equal to one of the following:
    - `github_pr_opened:` PR opened by the user
    - `github_pr_workflow_complete_success:` All PR checks passed successfully
    - `github_pr_workflow_complete_failure:` One of the PR checks failed
    - `github_pr_merged:` User merged the PR
- `githubPrNumber:` PR number
- `githubRepository:` The name of the repository in which the PR was opened
- `githubWorkflowRunUrl`: Defined when `eventType` is one of `github_pr_workflow_complete_success` or `github_pr_workflow_complete_failure`. Holds a URL of the workflow run. 

Here's an example of how to run the [Github Actions] and approve it once it all run successfully. Pay attention there's an action to finish the step only when they merge the PR (that's possible because the user can merge the PR only when you approve the PR)
```yml
trigger:
  type: github_pr_lifecycle_status
  flowNode:
    switch:
      key: "${eventType}"
      cases:
        github_pr_opened:
          do:
            ...
        github_pr_workflow_complete_success:
          do:
          - actionId: github_pr_approve
            ...
        github_pr_workflow_complete_failure:
          - actionId: github_pr_reject
            ...
        github_pr_merged:
          do:
          - actionId: finish_step
```

### GITHUB_ISSUE_CREATED

Triggered when the user creates an issue on their repository.

### GITHUB_BRANCH_CREATED

Triggered when the user creates a remote branch on their repository.

### GITHUB_DISCUSSION_CREATED

Triggered when the user creates a discussion on their repository.

Generated payload:

- `githubDiscussionNumber`: the discussion number of the created discussion

An example:
```yml
trigger:
  type: github_discussion_created
  flowNode:
    do:
      - actionId: github_reply_to_discussion
        params:
          discussionNumber: "${githubDiscussionNumber}"
          body: "Message body"
```

### PING

Triggered when a [ping] event happens in the user’s Anythink repo. No specific payload.

### CHAT_OPENED

Triggered when the user opens Snack. No specific payload.

### LOCAL_PAGE_LOAD

Triggered when the user opens a page in the Anythink frontend.

Payload:

- `path:` The URL of the opened page.

### GITHUB_USER_CONNECTED

Triggered when the user accepts the invitation to his Github repo. No specific payload

### NEWRELIC_EVENT_RECEIVED

Triggered when an event is received from the user’s New Relic account.

### CHAT_FORM_SUBMITTED
Triggers when a a user submit a form on Snack.

Payload:

- `formSubmission`: The data submitted by the user. The type is different between form types -
  - `single_select_form` - a single string
  - `multi_select_form` - a list of strings

Params: 

- `formId`: Used to subscribe to the desired form.

Usage example (for single select form):

```yml
trigger:
  type: chat_form_submitted
  params:
    formId: your_single_select_form_id
  flowNode:
    if:
      conditions:
      - conditionId: text_contains_strings
        params:
          text: "${formSubmission}"
          strings:
          - accept
      then:
        do:
        - actionId: your action here
      else:
        do:
        - actionId: a different action here
```

### USER_EVENT

Triggered when there's a custom event called on the user, you can trigger it by calling `https://engine.wilco.gg/users/${WILCO_USER_ID}/event`. You can find the user id in the `.wilco` file in the user's repository.
This trigger must contain `params` with a `event` key that matches the event prop in the payload of the event that you're sending.
Params: 
- `event`: the event type, passed in the event payload

Payload:
- `eventMetadata`: the metadata in the event payload

For example:

```yaml
trigger: 
  type: user_event
  params:
    event: test
  flowNode:
    ... // You can now user ${eventMetadata} here
```

And the equivalent event:
```
curl -X POST https://engine.wilco.gg/users/${WILCO_USER_ID}/event -d '{"event":"test", "metadata": {"prop": "value"}}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json'
```


## Global Payload

In addition to specific payload passed by each trigger, a global payload is always available:

- `user`: The Wilco user object. Contains the following fields (partial list):
    - `firstName` User's first name
    - `lastName` User's last name
    - `email` User's email address
    - `githubuser:` User’s Github username
    - `repository:` User’s Github repo url
    - `repoName:` Name of the user’s Github repo
    - `company`: Name of the user's company
    - `K8sBackendUrl:` url of the K8s backend app
    - `K8sFrontendUrl:` url of the K8s frontend app
    - `newrelic:` User’s New Relic account information
        - `accountId` New Relic account id
        - `apiKey` New Relic API key
    - `frameworks:` The backend and frontend frameworks chosen by the user
        - `backend:` One of node/rails/python
        - `frontend:` Currently only react
        - `database:` One of mongodb/postgresql
    
    Usage example:
    
    ```yaml
    actionId: github_pr_approve
    params:
      message: Nailed it! Excellent job @**${user.githubuser}**! You can now merge the PR.
    ```
    
- `bots:` Info about the bots. A map from bot id to bot details.
    
     Available ids are:

    - `keen`
    - `lucca`
    
    information for each bot:
    
    - `displayName:` name of the bot. E.g, Ness or Navi
    
    Usage example:
    
    ```yaml
    actionId: bot_message
    params:
      person: lucca
      messages:
      - text: Hey ${user.firstName},
        delay: 2000
      - text: I'm **${bots['lucca'].displayName}**, the lucca team leader.
        delay: 1500
      - text: "**${bots['keen'].displayName}** asked me to help you out. Just write
          here your *GitHub username* (without the \\`@\\`, so Messenger doesn’t freak
          out), and we'll add you as a contributor to the company's repository."
        delay: 3500
    ```
    
- `nextQuestUrl:` url for the next quest.
    
    Equal to: `${CONFIG.ENVIRONMENT.WILCO_APP_URL}/home`
    

## Mapping payload to block params

- All payload (trigger + global) parameters are passed as is to each block. This way, no additional configuration in the YAML is required for trivial cases.
    
    A good example is Github blocks which usually require a pr number or repo name:
    
    ```jsx
    const isFileInPRContains = async ({
      user,
      githubPrNumber,
      fileName,
      regex,
    }) => {
      const file = await getAddedFile(user, githubPrNumber, [fileName]);
      return !!file?.patch?.match(RegExp(regex));
    };
    ```
    
    In this example,  `user` and `githubPrNumber` are available in the condition parameters without any further configuration. Calling the `github_does_file_contain` can be configured in the YAML file, for example, in the following way (only `regex` and `fileName` are defined):
    
    ```yaml
    if:
      conditions:
        - conditionId: github_does_file_contain
          params:
            regex: license_key
          paramsFramework:
            node:
              fileName: backend/newrelic.js
            rails:
              fileName: backend/config/newrelic.yml
            python:
              fileName: backend/newrelic.ini
      then:
        ...
    ```
    

- In many cases, it is required to map the payload parameter to the block parameter. Referencing payload parameters is done using `${<payload_param>}`. Two such cases can be:
    - The name of the block parameter is different from its name in the payload
        
        An example of such a case is checking if chat message matches a regex:
        
        ```yaml
        if:
          conditions:
          - conditionId: text_match_regex
            params:
              text: "${userMessageText}"
              regex: ".*localhost.*@"
          then:
        ```
        
        In this example, the param `userMessageText` is passed to the condition as `text`
        
    - It is required to pass the payload parameter after some manipulation or as part of a more complex string (or both). 
    
    An example for such a case:

    ```yaml
        do:
          - actionId: bot_message
            params:
              person: keen
              messages:
              - text: Ooohh, I didn’t expect you to do this so quickly! Even your username,
                  ${path.slice(2)}, brings back memories. Strangely enough, they’re
                  your memories, which I don’t know why I have.
                delay: 2000
    ```
        
    We embed `path` param from the payload to the text sent to `keen` bot. The param here is embedded after applying `slice(2)` on its value.
        

## Result parameter

In addition to the payload parameters, a `result` parameter is passed to all conditions and actions. Each block can decide if to use it or not. The `result` parameter is used to pass information from the block to the next blocks. 

- The result is unique for each block and they are not shared, which means that a block can’t override or change the result object of other blocks.
- The result will be stored only if `name` was set for the block. In that case, the result of a block named `some_name` will be stored in the global payload in `payload.outputs[some_name]`. If name is missing, the result won't be stored and won't be used.
    
    A more specific example:
    
    ```yaml
    conditions:
      - conditionId: k8s_backend_config_var_defined
        name: new_relic_license_key_config
        params:
          key: NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY
    then: ...
    ```
    
    In this example, we call an action with the id `k8s_backend_config_var_defined` and give it a name,  `new_relic_license_key_config.` This condition checks that a config var exists and sets its value on the result if it does. 
    
    ```json
    {
    	"value": "config_var_val"
    }
    ```
    
    Then, the config var value can be used in next blocks. Foe example:
    
    ```yaml
    if:
      conditions:
        - conditionId: newrelic_license_key_valid
          params:
            licenseKey: '${outputs.new_relic_license_key_config.value}'
      then: ...
    ```
    
    The config var is used as input to the `newrelic_license_key_valid` condition which checks that the value is a valid New-Relic license key.
    

A default result is initialized for all conditions and actions.

- For actions, the result is initialized to:
    
    ```json
    {
    	"success": true
    	"error": null
    }
    ```
    

- For conditions, the result is initialized to:
    
    ```json
    {
    	"error": null
    }
    ```
    
    There's no need for `success` as conditions always return true/false and `success` is set according to the result. Meaning, `output.condition_name` will contain `success` as well.


[Flow Nodes]: {% link docs/building-your-quest/flow-nodes.md %}
[GitHub Actions]: {% link docs/building-your-quest/github-actions.md %}
[ping]: https://docs.github.com/en/webhooks-and-events/webhooks/webhook-events-and-payloads#ping
